 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To Our Customers: 
 
The attached Safety Data Sheet (SDS) was prepared by the vendor of the product you purchased 
through one of our divisions. We used the manufacturer’s electronic document directly or 
scanned a paper copy and generated a file for our automated SDS delivery system. 
 
All statements, technical information, and recommendations contained therein are solely that of 
the manufacturer of the product. We at Zep Inc. did not verify the accuracy and completeness of 
the statements and do not warrantee or guarantee the information. We provide vendor SDSs in 
accordance with the requirements of the OSHA Hazard Communication Standard in order to 
assist our customers in their compliance efforts. We made every effort to deliver all of the 
information prepared by the manufacturer. We cannot anticipate all conditions under which this 
information will be used. If you have any questions about the statements on the SDS, please 
contact the company shown on the document. 
 
Zep Inc. assumes no liability or responsibility for loss or damage resulting from the improper use 
or handling of this product, from incompatible product combinations, or from the failure to 
follow instructions, warnings, and advisories in the manufacturer’s product label and Safety Data 
Sheet. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Compliance Services 
Zep Inc. 
Page 1 of 9
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 09.16.2014
Phenolphthalein Indicator
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
SECTION 1: Identification of the substance/mixture and of the supplier
Product name:
Phenolphthalein Indicator
Manufacturer/Supplier Trade name:
Phenolphthalein Indicator
Manufacturer/Supplier Article number: ZPPH1605-A
Recommended uses of the product and restrictions on use: Laboratory chemicals
Manufacturer Details:
AquaPhoenix Scientific
9 Barnhart Drive, Hanover, PA 17331
(717) 632-1291
Supplier Details:
ZEP, INC.
1310 Seaboard Industrial Blvd., Atlanta, GA 30318
(877) 428-9937
Emergency telephone number:
Emergency Telephone No.: (800) 255-3924
SECTION 2: Hazards identification
Classification of the substance or mixture:
Flammable
Irritant
Health hazard
Acute toxicity (inhalation), category 4
Flammable liquids, category 3
Eye irritation, category 2A
Specific target organ toxicity - single exposure, category 1
Specific target organ toxicity - single exposure, category 3, central nervous system
Acute toxicity (oral), category 4
Acute toxicity (dermal), category 4
Signal word: Danger
Hazard statements:
Highly flammable liquid and vapor.
Harmful if swallowed.
Harmful in contact with skin.
Harmful if inhaled.
Causes serious eye irritation.
Causes damage to organs.
May cause drowsiness or dizziness.
Page 2 of 9
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 09.16.2014
Phenolphthalein Indicator
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
Precautionary statements:
Wear protective gloves/protective clothing/eye protection/face protection.
Use only non-sparking tools.
Take precautionary measures against static discharge.
Do not breathe dust/fume/gas/mist/vapors/spray.
Do not eat, drink or smoke when using this product.
Use only outdoors or in a well-ventilated area.
Wash skin thoroughly after handling.
Keep away from heat/sparks/open flames/hot surfaces. No smoking.
Keep container tightly closed.
Ground/bond container and receiving equipment.
Use explosion-proof electrical/ventilating/light/equipment.
If exposed: Call a poison center or doctor/physician.
Wash contaminated clothing before reuse.
If on skin (or hair): Immediately remove/take off all contaminated clothing. Rinse skin with water/shower.
In case of fire: Use agents recommended in section 5 for extinction.
If swallowed: Call a poison center or doctor/physician if you feel unwell.
Rinse mouth.
If inhaled: Remove victim to fresh air and keep at rest in a position comfortable for breathing. Call a poison
center or doctor/physician if you feel unwell.
Specific treatment (see supplemental first aid instructions on this label).
If in eyes: Rinse cautiously with water for several minutes. Remove contact lenses if present and easy to do.
Continue rinsing.
If eye irritation persists get medical advice/attention.
Store in a well ventilated place. Keep container tightly closed.
Store in a well ventilated place. Keep cool.
Store locked up.
Dispose of contents and container as instructed in Section 13.
Other Non-GHS Classification: None
SECTION 3: Composition/information on ingredients
Ingredients:
Ingredients:
CAS 67-56-1
Methanol
12.5 %
CAS 64-17-5
Ethanol
12.5 %
CAS 67-63-0
Isopropanol
25 %
CAS 77-09-8
Phenolphthalein
0.5 %
CAS 7732-18-5
Water (DI)
50 %
Percentages are by weight
SECTION 4: First aid measures
Description of first aid measures
After inhalation:
Take affected persons out into the fresh air. Seek immediate medical advice. Provide oxygen treatment if
affected person has difficulty breathing. In case of irregular breathing or respiratory arrest provide artificial
Page 3 of 9
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 09.16.2014
Phenolphthalein Indicator
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
respiration.
After skin contact:
Immediately remove any clothing soiled by the product. Flush with water for 15 minutes. Seek immediate
medical attention or advice.
After eye contact:
Protect unharmed eye. Flush with water for 15 minutes. Seek immediate medical attention or advice.
After swallowing:
Do not induce vomiting; call for medical help immediately. Symptoms of poisoning may even occur after
several hours; therefore medical observation for at least 48 hours after the accident. Have exposed individual
drink sips of water or milk.
Most important symptoms and effects, both acute and delayed:
Headache. Acidosis. Disorientation. Unconsciousness. Coughing. Breathing difficulty. Dizziness. Gastric or
intestinal disorders when ingested. Nausea in case of ingestion. Slight irritant effect on skin and mucous
membranes. Irritant to eyes. Blindness.
Indication of any immediate medical attention and special treatment needed:
Contains methanol. Consult literature for specific antidotes. Medical supervision for at least 48 hours. Monitor
circulation, possible shock treatment. If necessary oxygen respiration treatment. Note to physician: Treat
symptomatically.
SECTION 5: Firefighting measures
Extinguishing media
Suitable extinguishing agents:
CO2, powder or water spray. Fight larger fires with water spray.
Unsuitable extinguishing agents:
None.
Special hazards arising from the substance or mixture:
Formation of toxic gases is possible during heating or in case of fire.
Advice for firefighters:
Protective equipment:
Wear self-contained respiratory protective device. Wear fully protective suit.
Additional information (precautions):
Eliminate all ignition sources if safe to do so. Use large quantities of foam as it is partially destroyed by the
product.
SECTION 6: Accidental release measures
Personal precautions, protective equipment and emergency procedures:
Wear protective equipment. Use respiratory protective device against the effects of fumes/dust/aerosol. Keep
unprotected persons away. Ensure adequate ventilation. Keep away from ignition sources. Protect from heat.
Avoid contact with skin and eyes, and clothing.
Environmental precautions:
Do not allow to enter sewers. Do not allow to enter surface or ground water. Inform respective authorities in
case of seepage into water course or sewage system.
Methods and material for containment and cleaning up:
Absorb with non-combustible liquid-binding material (sand, diatomite, acid binders, universal binders). Send for
recovery or disposal in suitable receptacles. Dispose contaminated material as waste according to section 13.
Page 4 of 9
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 09.16.2014
Phenolphthalein Indicator
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
Used rags or other cleaning materials should be soaked with water and placed in a sealed container. Clean up
spills immediately, observing precautions in Section 8. Always obey local regulations. Wash hands after
handling. Avoid contact with skin and eyes.
Reference to other sections:
See Section 7 for information on safe handling. See Section 8 for information on personal protection equipment.
See Section 13 for disposal information.
SECTION 7: Handling and storage
Precautions for safe handling:
Prevent formation of aerosols. Avoid splashes or spray in enclosed areas. Use only in well ventilated areas.
Rags, metal wools / cuttings / shavings and waste papers soaked with product must be placed in a sealed metal
container rated for flammable waste. Keep ignition sources away - Do not smoke. Flammable gas-air mixtures
may form in empty receptacles. Protect against electrostatic charges. Fumes can combine with air to form an
explosive mixture.
Conditions for safe storage, including any incompatibilities:
Store in a cool location. Provide ventilation for receptacles. Avoid storage near extreme heat, ignition sources or
open flame. Store away from foodstuffs. Store away from oxidizing agents. Store in cool, dry conditions in well
sealed receptacles. Keep container tightly sealed. Store away from combustible materials. Protect from freezing
and physical damage.
SECTION 8: Exposure controls/personal protection
Control parameters:
67-63-0, :Isopropanol, ACGIH TLV: 983mg/m3.
67-63-0, :Isopropanol, OSHA PEL: 980mg/m3.
64-17-5, Ethanol, OSHA PEL: 1900mg/m3.
64-17-5, Ethanol, ACGIH TLV: 1880mg/m3.
67-56-1, Methanol, OSHA PEL: 200ppm.
67-56-1, Methanol., ACGIH TLV: 200ppm.
Appropriate engineering controls:
Emergency eye wash fountains and safety showers should be available in
the immediate vicinity of any potential exposure. Provide exhaust
ventilation or other engineering controls to keep the airborne
concentrations of vapor or mists below the applicable workplace
exposure limits indicated above. All electrical equipment should comply
with the National Electric Code. Proper grounding procedures to avoid
static electricity should be followed. Use explosion-proof equipment. Take
precautionary measures against static discharges. Ensure all
national/local regulations are observed. Gas detectors should be used
when flammable gases/vapors may be released.
Respiratory protection:
Not required under normal conditions of use. Use suitable respiratory
protective device when high concentrations are present. Use suitable
respiratory protective device when aerosol or mist is formed. For spills,
respiratory protection may be advisable.
Protection of skin:
The glove material has to be impermeable and resistant to the product/
the substance/ the preparation. Selection of the glove material on
consideration of the penetration times, rates of diffusion and the
degradation.
Eye protection:
Safety glasses.
Page 5 of 9
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 09.16.2014
Phenolphthalein Indicator
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
General hygienic measures:
The usual precautionary measures are to be adhered to when handling
chemicals. Keep away from foodstuffs, beverages and feed. Immediately
remove all soiled and contaminated clothing. Wash hands before breaks
and at the end of work. Do not inhale gases / fumes / aerosols. Avoid
contact with the eyes and skin.
SECTION 9: Physical and chemical properties
Appearance (physical
state, color):
Clear, colorless liquid Explosion limit lower:
Explosion limit upper:
Product does not present
Explosion hazard
Not determined
Odor:
Mild alcohol
Vapor pressure at 20°C:
33mmHg @ 20C
Odor threshold:
Not determined
Vapor density:
2.1
pH-value:
8.0 - 8.2
Relative density:
Not determined
Melting/Freezing point:
- 88C
Solubilities:
Soluble in water
Boiling point/Boiling
range:
Approx 82C
Partition coefficient (n-
octanol/water):
Not determined
Flash point (closed cup): Not determined
Auto/Self-ignition
temperature:
Product is not self-igniting
Evaporation rate:
2.88
Decomposition
temperature:
Not determined
Flammability (solid,
gaseous):
Not determined
Viscosity:
a. Kinematic: Not determined
b. Dynamic: Not determined
Density at 20°C:
slightly heavier than water
SECTION 10: Stability and reactivity
Reactivity:
Not determined.
Chemical stability:
No decomposition if used and stored according to specifications.
Possible hazardous reactions:
Flammable. Toxic fumes may be released if heated above the decomposition point. Reacts violently with
oxidizing agents.
Conditions to avoid:
Keep ignition sources away - Do not smoke. Store away from oxidizing agents. Excess heat.
Incompatible materials:
Strong acids. Strong bases. Oxidizers, aldehydes, heat, sparks, open flame, metallic oxides.
Hazardous decomposition products:
Carbon oxides (CO, CO2). Acrid and irritating fumes, including toxic oxides of carbon will heat to combustion.
SECTION 11: Toxicological information
Acute Toxicity:
ATE: 50ppm.
Oral:
LD50 rat: 5840 mg/kg (Isopropanol).
Inhalation:
Page 6 of 9
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 09.16.2014
Phenolphthalein Indicator
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
LC50 rat 83.2 mg/L (Methanol).
Chronic Toxicity:
Oral:
No testing available.
Dermal:
No testing available.
Inhalation:
No testing available.
Skin corrosion/irritation:
No testing available.
Serious eye damage/irritation:
No testing available.
Respiratory or skin sensitization:
Not classified
Carcinogenicity:
Germ cell mutagenicity: No additional information.
Reproductive Toxicity: No additional information.
STOT-single and repeated exposure:
Not classified
Additional toxicological information:
No additional information.
SECTION 12: Ecological information
Ecotoxicity:
Toxicity to fish , Toxicity to fish LC50 - Pimephales promelas (fathead minnow) - 31 mg/l - 96 h.
Persistence and degradability:
biodegradable.
Bioaccumulative potential:
No further relevant information available.
Mobility in soil:
No further relevant information available.
Other adverse effects:
No further relevant information available.
SECTION 13: Disposal considerations
Waste disposal recommendations:
Product/containers must not be disposed together with household garbage. Do not allow product to reach
Page 7 of 9
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 09.16.2014
Phenolphthalein Indicator
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
sewage system or open water. It is the responsibility of the waste generator to properly characterize all waste
materials according to applicable regulatory entities (US 40CFR262.11). Consult federal state/ provincial and
local regulations regarding the proper disposal of waste material that may incorporate some amount of this
product. Handle empty containers with care because residual vapors are flammable. Avoid release to the
environment. Absorb and containerize for disposal.
SECTION 14: Transport information
US DOT
UN Number:
ADR, ADN, DOT, IMDG, IATA
UN1993
Limited Quantity Exception:
9 CFR 173.150 - Exceptions for Class 3
(flammable and combustible liquids).
Bulk:
Non Bulk:
RQ (if applicable): None
RQ (if applicable): None
Proper shipping Name: Flammable Liquids,
N.O.S., (Methanol, Ethanol, Isopropanol), 3.
Proper shipping Name: Flammable Liquids,
N.O.S., (Methanol, Ethanol, Isopropanol), 3.
Hazard Class: 3
Hazard Class: 3
Packing Group: II.
Packing Group: II.
Marine Pollutant (if applicable): No
additional information.
Marine Pollutant (if applicable): No
additional information.
Comments: None
Comments: None
SECTION 15: Regulatory information
United States (USA)
SARA Section 311/312 (Specific toxic chemical listings):
Acute,Chronic,Fire
SARA Section 313 (Specific toxic chemical listings):
67-56-1 Methanol.
RCRA (hazardous waste code):
None of the ingredients are listed.
TSCA (Toxic Substances Control Act) :
All ingredients are listed.
CERCLA (Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act):
None of the ingredients are listed.
Proposition 65 (California):
Chemicals known to cause cancer:
77-09-8 Phenolphthalein.
Page 8 of 9
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 09.16.2014
Phenolphthalein Indicator
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
Chemicals known to cause reproductive toxicity for females:
None of the ingredients are listed.
Chemicals known to cause reproductive toxicity for males:
None of the ingredients are listed.
Chemicals known to cause developmental toxicity:
64-17-5 Ethanol.
67-56-1 Methanol.
Canada
Canadian Domestic Substances List (DSL) :
All ingredients are listed.
SECTION 16: Other information
This product has been classified in accordance with hazard criteria of the Controlled Products Regulations and
the SDS contains all the information required by the Controlled Products Regulations. The responsibility to
provide a safe workplace remains with the user. The user should consider the health hazards and safety
information contained herein as a guide and should take those precautions required in an individual operation
to instruct employees and develop work practice procedures for a safe work environment. The information
contained herein is, to the best of our knowledge and belief, accurate. However, since the conditions of
handling and use are beyond our control, we make no guarantee of results, and assume no liability for damages
incurred by the use of this material. It is the responsibility of the user to comply with all applicable laws and
regulations.of this material.
NFPA: 1-2-0
HMIS: 1-2-0
GHS Full Text Phrases: 
Acute Tox. 4 (Oral) Acute toxicity (oral) Category 4.
H226 Flammable liquid and vapor.
H302 Harmful if swallowed.
H315 Causes skin irritation.
H319 Causes serious eye irritation.
H335 May cause respiratory irritation.
H336 May cause drowsiness or dizziness.
H341 Suspected of causing genetic defects.
H350 May cause cancer.
H361 Suspected of damaging fertility or the unborn child.
Carc. 1B Carcinogenicity Category 1B.
Eye Irrit. 2A Serious eye damage/eye irritation Category 2A.
Eye Irrit. 2B Serious eye damage/eye irritation Category 2B.
Flam. Liq. 3 Flammable liquids Category 3.
Muta. 2 Germ cell mutagenicity Category 2.
Repr. 2 Reproductive toxicity Category 2.
Skin Irrit. 2 skin corrosion/irritation Category 2.
STOT SE 3 Specific target organ toxicity (single exposure) Category 3.
Abbreviations and Acronyms: 
IMDG International Maritime Code for Dangerous Goods.
DNEL Derived No-Effect Level (REACH).
Page 9 of 9
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 09.16.2014
Phenolphthalein Indicator
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
PNEC Predicted No-Effect Concentration (REACH).
DOT US Department of Transportation.
IATA International Air Transportation Association.
GHS Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals.
ACGIH American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists.
CAS Chemical Abstracts Service (division of the American Chemical Society).
NFPA National Fire Protection Association (USA).
HMIS Hazardous Materials Identification System (USA).
WHMIS Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System (Canada).
Page 1 of 7
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 12.14.2014
Sodium Hydroxide, 0.1N
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
SECTION 1: Identification of the substance/mixture and of the supplier
Product name:
Sodium Hydroxide, 0.1N
Manufacturer/Supplier Trade name:
Manufacturer/Supplier Article number: ZPSH6200-B
Recommended uses of the product and restrictions on use: Laboratory chemicals
Manufacturer Details:
AquaPhoenix Scientific
9 Barnhart Drive, Hanover, PA 17331
(717) 632-1291
Supplier Details:
ZEP, INC.
1310 Seaboard Industrial Blvd., Atlanta, GA 30318
(877) 428-9937
Emergency telephone number:
Emergency Telephone No.: (800) 255-3924
SECTION 2: Hazards identification
Classification of the substance or mixture:
Corrosive
Corrosive to metals, category 1
Irritant
Skin irritation, category 2
Eye irritation, category 2A
Skin Irrit. 2.
Eye Irrit. 2A.
Metal Corr. 1.
Signal word: Warning
Hazard statements:
May be corrosive to metals.
Causes skin irritation.
Causes serious eye irritation.
Precautionary statements:
If medical advice is needed have product container or label at hand.
Keep out of reach of children.
Read label before use.
Keep only in original container.
Wash thoroughly after handling.
Wear protective gloves/protective clothing/eye protection/face protection.
Absorb spillage to prevent material damage.
IF ON SKIN: Wash with soap and water.
Specific treatment (see supplemental first aid instructions on this label).
If skin irritation occurs: Get medical advice/attention.
Page 2 of 7
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 12.14.2014
Sodium Hydroxide, 0.1N
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
Take off contaminated clothing and wash before reuse.
If eye irritation persists get medical advice/attention.
IF IN EYES: Rinse cautiously with water for several minutes. Remove contact lenses if present and easy to do.
Continue rinsing.
Store in a corrosive resistant container with a resistant inner liner.
Other Non-GHS Classification: None
SECTION 3: Composition/information on ingredients
Ingredients:
Ingredients:
CAS 1310-73-2
Sodium Hydroxide
0.4 %
CAS 7732-18-5
Deionized Water
99.6 %
Percentages are by weight
SECTION 4: First aid measures
Description of first aid measures
After inhalation:
Move exposed individual to fresh air. Loosen clothing as necessary and position individual in a comfortable
position. Seek medical advice if discomfort or irritation persists. If breathing difficult, give oxygen.
After skin contact:
Take off contaminated clothing and shoes immediately. Wash affected area with soap and water. Seek medical
attention if irritation, discomfort persist.
After eye contact:
Protect unexposed eye. Rinse/flush exposed eye(s) gently using water for 15-20 minutes. Remove contact
lens(es) if able to do so during rinsing. Immediately get medical assistance.
After swallowing:
Rinse mouth thoroughly. Do not induce vomiting. Have exposed individual drink sips of water. Seek medical
attention if irritation, discomfort or vomiting persists.
Most important symptoms and effects, both acute and delayed:
Irritation. Nausea. Headache. Shortness of breath.
Indication of any immediate medical attention and special treatment needed:
If seeking medical attention, provide SDS document to physician.
SECTION 5: Firefighting measures
Extinguishing media
Suitable extinguishing agents:
If in laboratory setting, follow laboratory fire suppression procedures. Use appropriate fire suppression agents
for adjacent combustible materials or sources of ignition.
Unsuitable extinguishing agents: None
Special hazards arising from the substance or mixture:
Combustion products may include carbon oxides or other toxic vapors. Thermal decomposition can lead to
release of irritating gases and vapors. Sodium oxides.
Page 3 of 7
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 12.14.2014
Sodium Hydroxide, 0.1N
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
Advice for firefighters:
Protective equipment:
Use NIOSH-approved respiratory protection/breathing apparatus.
Additional information (precautions):
Move product containers away from fire or keep cool with water spray as a protective measure, where feasible.
SECTION 6: Accidental release measures
Personal precautions, protective equipment and emergency procedures:
Wear protective equipment. Transfer to a disposal or recovery container. Use respiratory protective device
against the effects of fumes/dust/aerosol. Keep unprotected persons away. Ensure adequate ventilation. Keep
away from ignition sources. Protect from heat.
Environmental precautions:
Prevent from reaching drains, sewer or waterway. Collect contaminated soil for characterization per Section 13.
Methods and material for containment and cleaning up:
If in a laboratory setting, follow Chemical Hygiene Plan procedures. Place into properly labeled containers for
recovery or disposal. If necessary, use trained response staff/contractor. Collect liquid and dilute with water.
Neutralize with dilute acid solutions. Decant water to drain with excess water. Absorb with suitable material.
Dispose of remaining solid as normal refuse. Always obey local regulations.
Reference to other sections: None
SECTION 7: Handling and storage
Precautions for safe handling:
Absorb spillage to prevent material damage due to corrosiveness to metal. Avoid contact with eyes, skin, and
clothing. Wash hands after handling. Do not mix with acids. Follow good hygiene procedures when handling
chemical materials. Use only in well ventilated areas.
Conditions for safe storage, including any incompatibilities:
Provide ventilation for containers. Avoid storage near extreme heat, ignition sources or open flame. Store away
from foodstuffs. Store away from oxidizing agents. Store in cool, dry conditions in well sealed containers. Store
with Corrosives.
SECTION 8: Exposure controls/personal protection
Control parameters:
1310-73-2, Sodium Hydroxide, OSHA PEL TWA 2 mg/m3.
1310-73-2, Sodium Hydroxide, ACGIH TLV TWA 2 mg/m3.
Appropriate engineering controls:
Emergency eye wash fountains and safety showers should be available in
the immediate vicinity of use/handling. Provide exhaust ventilation or
other engineering controls to keep the airborne concentrations of vapor
or dusts (total/respirable) below the applicable workplace exposure limits
(Occupational Exposure Limits-OELs) indicated above.
Respiratory protection:
Not required under normal conditions of use. Use suitable respiratory
protective device when high concentrations are present. Use suitable
respiratory protective device when aerosol or mist is formed. For spills,
respiratory protection may be advisable.
Page 4 of 7
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 12.14.2014
Sodium Hydroxide, 0.1N
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
Protection of skin:
The glove material has to be impermeable and resistant to the product/
the substance/ the preparation being used/handled. Selection of the glove
material on consideration of the penetration times, rates of diffusion and
the degradation.
Eye protection:
Safety glasses with side shields or goggles.
General hygienic measures:
The usual precautionary measures are to be adhered to when handling
chemicals. Keep away from food, beverages and feed sources.
Immediately remove all soiled and contaminated clothing. Wash hands
before breaks and at the end of work. Do not inhale
gases/fumes/dust/mist/vapor/aerosols. Avoid contact with the eyes and
skin.
SECTION 9: Physical and chemical properties
Appearance (physical
state, color):
Clear, colorless liquid Explosion limit lower:
Explosion limit upper:
Non Explosive
Non Explosive
Odor:
Odorless
Vapor pressure at 20°C:
14mmHg @ 20C
Odor threshold:
Not determined
Vapor density:
>1
pH-value:
>12
Relative density:
Approx 1
Melting/Freezing point:
Approx 0°C
Solubilities:
Soluble in Water
Boiling point/Boiling
range:
Approx 100°C
Partition coefficient (n-
octanol/water):
Not determined
Flash point (closed cup): Not determined
Auto/Self-ignition
temperature:
Not determined
Evaporation rate:
Not determined
Decomposition
temperature:
Not determined
Flammability (solid,
gaseous):
Not determined
Viscosity:
a. Kinematic: Not determined
b. Dynamic: Not determined
Density at 20°C:
Not determined
SECTION 10: Stability and reactivity
Reactivity:
Solution attacks metals such as aluminum, tin, lead and zinc. Also generates heat on exposure to acids.
Aqueous solutions react violently with acids.
Chemical stability:
No decomposition if used and stored according to specifications.
Possible hazardous reactions: None
Conditions to avoid:
Incompatible materials, excess heat.
Incompatible materials:
acids, Organic materials, Chlorinated solvents, Aluminum, Phosphorus, Tin/tin oxides, Zinc.
Hazardous decomposition products:
sodium oxides, hydrogen.
SECTION 11: Toxicological information
Acute Toxicity:
Dermal:
Page 5 of 7
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 12.14.2014
Sodium Hydroxide, 0.1N
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
Dermal LD50 Rabbit 1350 mg/kg 1310-73-2.
Chronic Toxicity: No additional information.
Skin corrosion/irritation:
Rabbit: Causes Burns. 1310-73-2.
Serious eye damage/irritation:
Rabbit: Corrosive to eyes. 1310-73-2.
Respiratory or skin sensitization: No additional information.
Carcinogenicity:
Germ cell mutagenicity: No additional information.
Reproductive Toxicity: No additional information.
STOT-single and repeated exposure: No additional information.
Additional toxicological information:
No additional information.
SECTION 12: Ecological information
Ecotoxicity:
Fish (acute 1310-73-2): , 96 Hr LC50 Oncorhynchus mykiss: 45.4 mg/L.
Persistence and degradability:
Readily degradable in the environment.
Bioaccumulative potential:
Not expected to bio accumulate.
Mobility in soil: No additional information.
Other adverse effects: No additional information.
SECTION 13: Disposal considerations
Waste disposal recommendations:
Product/containers must not be disposed together with household garbage. Do not allow product to reach
sewage system or open water. It is the responsibility of the waste generator to properly characterize all waste
materials according to applicable regulatory entities (US 40CFR262.11). Consult federal state/ provincial and
local regulations regarding the proper disposal of waste material that may incorporate some amount of this
product. Neutralize with dilute acid solutions.
SECTION 14: Transport information
US DOT
UN Number:
ADR, ADN, DOT, IMDG, IATA
Not Regulated.
Limited Quantity Exception:
None
Bulk:
Non Bulk:
Page 6 of 7
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 12.14.2014
Sodium Hydroxide, 0.1N
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
RQ (if applicable): None
RQ (if applicable): None
Proper shipping Name: Not Regulated.
Proper shipping Name: Not Regulated.
Hazard Class: None
Hazard Class: None
Packing Group: Not Regulated.
Packing Group: Not Regulated.
Marine Pollutant (if applicable): No
additional information.
Marine Pollutant (if applicable): No
additional information.
Comments: None
Comments: None
SECTION 15: Regulatory information
United States (USA)
SARA Section 311/312 (Specific toxic chemical listings):
None of the ingredients are listed.
SARA Section 313 (Specific toxic chemical listings):
None of the ingredients are listed.
RCRA (hazardous waste code):
None of the ingredients are listed.
TSCA (Toxic Substances Control Act) :
All ingredients are listed.
CERCLA (Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act):
1310-73-2 Sodium Hydroxide 1000 lb.
Proposition 65 (California):
Chemicals known to cause cancer:
None of the ingredients are listed.
Chemicals known to cause reproductive toxicity for females:
None of the ingredients are listed.
Chemicals known to cause reproductive toxicity for males:
None of the ingredients are listed.
Chemicals known to cause developmental toxicity:
None of the ingredients are listed.
Canada
Canadian Domestic Substances List (DSL) :
All ingredients are listed.
SECTION 16: Other information
This product has been classified in accordance with hazard criteria of the Controlled Products Regulations and
the SDS contains all the information required by the Controlled Products Regulations. Note. The responsibility to
provide a safe workplace remains with the user. The user should consider the health hazards and safety
information contained herein as a guide and should take those precautions required in an individual operation
to instruct employees and develop work practice procedures for a safe work environment. The information
contained herein is, to the best of our knowledge and belief, accurate. However, since the conditions of
handling and use are beyond our control, we make no guarantee of results, and assume no liability for damages
Page 7 of 7
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 12.14.2014
Sodium Hydroxide, 0.1N
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
incurred by the use of this material. It is the responsibility of the user to comply with all applicable laws and
regulations applicable to this material.
NFPA: 1-0-0
HMIS: 1-0-0
GHS Full Text Phrases:  None
Abbreviations and Acronyms: 
IMDG International Maritime Code for Dangerous Goods.
PNEC. Predicted No-Effect Concentration (REACH).
CFR Code of Federal Regulations (USA).
SARA Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act (USA).
RCRA. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (USA).
TSCA. Toxic Substances Control Act (USA).
NPRI National Pollutant Release Inventory (Canada).
DOT US Department of Transportation.
IATA International Air Transport Association.
GHS Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals.
ACGIH American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists.
CAS Chemical Abstracts Service (division of the American Chemical Society).
NFPA National Fire Protection Association (USA).
HMIS Hazardous Materials Identification System (USA).
WHMIS Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System (Canada).
DNEL Derived No-Effect Level (REACH).
Page 1 of 7
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 12.14.2014
Sodium Hydroxide,1.1N
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
SECTION 1: Identification of the substance/mixture and of the supplier
Product name:
Sodium Hydroxide,1.1N
Manufacturer/Supplier Trade name:
Manufacturer/Supplier Article number: ZPSH6254-B
Recommended uses of the product and restrictions on use: Laboratory chemicals
Manufacturer Details:
AquaPhoenix Scientific
9 Barnhart Drive, Hanover, PA 17331
(717) 632-1291
Supplier Details:
ZEP, INC.
1310 Seaboard Industrial Blvd., Atlanta, GA 30318
(877) 428-9937
Emergency telephone number:
Emergency Telephone No.: (800) 255-3924
SECTION 2: Hazards identification
Classification of the substance or mixture:
Corrosive
Corrosive to metals, category 1
Skin corrosion, category 1B
Serious eye damage, category 1
Skin Corr. 1B.
Eye corr. 1.
Metal Corr. 1.
Signal word: Danger
Hazard statements:
May be corrosive to metals.
Causes severe skin burns and eye damage.
Causes serious eye damage.
Precautionary statements:
If medical advice is needed have product container or label at hand.
Keep out of reach of children.
Read label before use.
Keep only in original container.
Wash thoroughly after handling.
Wear protective gloves/protective clothing/eye protection/face protection.
Do not breathe dust/fume/gas/mist/vapours/spray.
IF SWALLOWED: Rinse mouth. Do NOT induce vomiting.
IF ON SKIN (or hair): Remove/Take off immediately all contaminated clothing. Rinse skin with water/shower.
Wash contaminated clothing before reuse.
IF INHALED: Remove victim to fresh air and keep at rest in a position comfortable for breathing.
IF INHALED: Call a POISON CENTER or doctor/physician if you feel unwell.
Immediately call a POISON CENTER or doctor/physician.
Page 2 of 7
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 12.14.2014
Sodium Hydroxide,1.1N
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
Specific treatment (see supplemental first aid instructions on this label).
Absorb spillage to prevent material damage.
Store in a corrosive resistant container with a resistant inner liner.
Store locked up.
Dispose of contents/container.
Other Non-GHS Classification: None
SECTION 3: Composition/information on ingredients
Ingredients:
Ingredients:
CAS 1310-73-2
Sodium Hydroxide
4.4 %
CAS 7732-18-5
Deionized Water
95.6 %
Percentages are by weight
SECTION 4: First aid measures
Description of first aid measures
After inhalation:
Move exposed individual to fresh air. Loosen clothing as necessary and position individual in a comfortable
position. Seek medical advice if discomfort or irritation persists. If breathing difficult, give oxygen.
After skin contact:
Take off contaminated clothing and shoes immediately. Wash affected area with soap and water. Seek medical
attention if irritation, discomfort persist.
After eye contact:
Protect unexposed eye. Rinse/flush exposed eye(s) gently using water for 15-20 minutes. Remove contact
lens(es) if able to do so during rinsing. Immediately get medical assistance.
After swallowing:
Rinse mouth thoroughly. Do not induce vomiting. Have exposed individual drink sips of water. Seek medical
attention if irritation, discomfort or vomiting persists.
Most important symptoms and effects, both acute and delayed:
Irritation. Nausea. Headache. Shortness of breath.
Indication of any immediate medical attention and special treatment needed:
If seeking medical attention, provide SDS document to physician.
SECTION 5: Firefighting measures
Extinguishing media
Suitable extinguishing agents:
If in laboratory setting, follow laboratory fire suppression procedures. Use appropriate fire suppression agents
for adjacent combustible materials or sources of ignition.
Unsuitable extinguishing agents:
Carbon dioxide.
Special hazards arising from the substance or mixture:
Combustion products may include carbon oxides or other toxic vapors. Thermal decomposition can lead to
Page 3 of 7
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 12.14.2014
Sodium Hydroxide,1.1N
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
release of irritating gases and vapors. Sodium oxides.
Advice for firefighters:
Protective equipment:
Use NIOSH-approved respiratory protection/breathing apparatus.
Additional information (precautions):
Move product containers away from fire or keep cool with water spray as a protective measure, where feasible.
SECTION 6: Accidental release measures
Personal precautions, protective equipment and emergency procedures:
Wear protective equipment. Transfer to a disposal or recovery container. Use respiratory protective device
against the effects of fumes/dust/aerosol. Keep unprotected persons away. Ensure adequate ventilation. Keep
away from ignition sources. Protect from heat.
Environmental precautions:
Prevent from reaching drains, sewer or waterway. Collect contaminated soil for characterization per Section 13.
Methods and material for containment and cleaning up:
If in a laboratory setting, follow Chemical Hygiene Plan procedures. Place into properly labeled containers for
recovery or disposal. If necessary, use trained response staff/contractor. Collect liquid and dilute with water.
Neutralize with dilute acid solutions. Decant water to drain with excess water. Absorb with suitable material.
Dispose of remaining solid as normal refuse. Always obey local regulations.
Reference to other sections: None
SECTION 7: Handling and storage
Precautions for safe handling:
Absorb spillage to prevent material damage due to corrosiveness to metal. Avoid contact with eyes, skin, and
clothing. Wash hands after handling. Do not mix with acids. Follow good hygiene procedures when handling
chemical materials. Use only in well ventilated areas.
Conditions for safe storage, including any incompatibilities:
Provide ventilation for containers. Avoid storage near extreme heat, ignition sources or open flame. Store away
from foodstuffs. Store away from oxidizing agents. Store in cool, dry conditions in well sealed containers. Store
with Corrosives.
SECTION 8: Exposure controls/personal protection
Control parameters:
1310-73-2, Sodium Hydroxide, OSHA PEL TWA 2 mg/m3.
1310-73-2, Sodium Hydroxide, ACGIH TLV TWA 2 mg/m3.
Appropriate engineering controls:
Emergency eye wash fountains and safety showers should be available in
the immediate vicinity of use/handling. Provide exhaust ventilation or
other engineering controls to keep the airborne concentrations of vapor
or dusts (total/respirable) below the applicable workplace exposure limits
(Occupational Exposure Limits-OELs) indicated above. Use under a
chemical fume hood.
Respiratory protection:
Use suitable respiratory protective device when high concentrations are
present. Use suitable respiratory protective device when aerosol or mist
is formed. For spills, respiratory protection may be advisable. Use under a
chemical fume hood.
Page 4 of 7
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 12.14.2014
Sodium Hydroxide,1.1N
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
Protection of skin:
The glove material has to be impermeable and resistant to the product/
the substance/ the preparation being used/handled. Selection of the glove
material on consideration of the penetration times, rates of diffusion and
the degradation.
Eye protection:
Safety glasses with side shields or goggles.
General hygienic measures:
The usual precautionary measures are to be adhered to when handling
chemicals. Keep away from food, beverages and feed sources.
Immediately remove all soiled and contaminated clothing. Wash hands
before breaks and at the end of work. Do not inhale
gases/fumes/dust/mist/vapor/aerosols. Avoid contact with the eyes and
skin.
SECTION 9: Physical and chemical properties
Appearance (physical
state, color):
Clear, colorless liquid Explosion limit lower:
Explosion limit upper:
Non Explosive
Non Explosive
Odor:
Odorless
Vapor pressure at 20°C:
14mmHg @ 20C
Odor threshold:
Not determined
Vapor density:
>1
pH-value:
Alkaline
Relative density:
Approx 1
Melting/Freezing point:
Approx 0°C
Solubilities:
Soluble in Water
Boiling point/Boiling
range:
Approx 100°C
Partition coefficient (n-
octanol/water):
Not determined
Flash point (closed cup): Not determined
Auto/Self-ignition
temperature:
Not determined
Evaporation rate:
Not determined
Decomposition
temperature:
Not determined
Flammability (solid,
gaseous):
Not determined
Viscosity:
a. Kinematic: Not determined
b. Dynamic: Not determined
Density at 20°C:
Not determined
SECTION 10: Stability and reactivity
Reactivity:
Solution attacks metals such as aluminum, tin, lead and zinc. Also generates heat on exposure to acids.
Aqueous solutions react violently with acids.
Chemical stability:
No decomposition if used and stored according to specifications.
Possible hazardous reactions: None
Conditions to avoid:
Incompatible materials, excess heat.
Incompatible materials:
acids, Organic materials, Chlorinated solvents, Aluminum, Phosphorus, Tin/tin oxides, Zinc.
Hazardous decomposition products:
sodium oxides, hydrogen.
SECTION 11: Toxicological information
Acute Toxicity: None
Chronic Toxicity: No additional information.
Page 5 of 7
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 12.14.2014
Sodium Hydroxide,1.1N
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
Skin corrosion/irritation:
Rabbit: Causes Burns. 1310-73-2.
Serious eye damage/irritation:
Rabbit: Corrosive to eyes. 1310-73-2.
Respiratory or skin sensitization: No additional information.
Carcinogenicity:
Not listed as a carcinogen.: 1310-73-2
Germ cell mutagenicity: No additional information.
Reproductive Toxicity: No additional information.
STOT-single and repeated exposure: No additional information.
Additional toxicological information:
No additional information.
SECTION 12: Ecological information
Ecotoxicity: No additional information.
Persistence and degradability:
Readily degradable in the environment.
Bioaccumulative potential:
Not expected to bio accumulate.
Mobility in soil: No additional information.
Other adverse effects: No additional information.
SECTION 13: Disposal considerations
Waste disposal recommendations:
Product/containers must not be disposed together with household garbage. Do not allow product to reach
sewage system or open water. It is the responsibility of the waste generator to properly characterize all waste
materials according to applicable regulatory entities (US 40CFR262.11). Consult federal state/ provincial and
local regulations regarding the proper disposal of waste material that may incorporate some amount of this
product. Neutralize with dilute acid solutions.
SECTION 14: Transport information
US DOT
UN Number:
ADR, ADN, DOT, IMDG, IATA
1824
Limited Quantity Exception:
None
Bulk:
Non Bulk:
RQ (if applicable): None
RQ (if applicable): None
Proper shipping Name: Sodium hydroxide
solution.
Proper shipping Name: Sodium hydroxide
solution.
Hazard Class: 8
Hazard Class: 8
Page 6 of 7
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 12.14.2014
Sodium Hydroxide,1.1N
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
Packing Group: II.
Packing Group: II.
Marine Pollutant (if applicable): No
additional information.
Marine Pollutant (if applicable): No
additional information.
Comments: None
Comments: None
SECTION 15: Regulatory information
United States (USA)
SARA Section 311/312 (Specific toxic chemical listings):
None of the ingredients are listed.
SARA Section 313 (Specific toxic chemical listings):
None of the ingredients are listed.
RCRA (hazardous waste code):
None of the ingredients are listed.
TSCA (Toxic Substances Control Act) :
All ingredients are listed.
CERCLA (Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act):
1310-73-2 Sodium Hydroxide 1000 lb.
Proposition 65 (California):
Chemicals known to cause cancer:
None of the ingredients are listed.
Chemicals known to cause reproductive toxicity for females:
None of the ingredients are listed.
Chemicals known to cause reproductive toxicity for males:
None of the ingredients are listed.
Chemicals known to cause developmental toxicity:
None of the ingredients are listed.
Canada
Canadian Domestic Substances List (DSL) :
All ingredients are listed.
SECTION 16: Other information
This product has been classified in accordance with hazard criteria of the Controlled Products Regulations and
the SDS contains all the information required by the Controlled Products Regulations. Note. The responsibility to
provide a safe workplace remains with the user. The user should consider the health hazards and safety
information contained herein as a guide and should take those precautions required in an individual operation
to instruct employees and develop work practice procedures for a safe work environment. The information
contained herein is, to the best of our knowledge and belief, accurate. However, since the conditions of
handling and use are beyond our control, we make no guarantee of results, and assume no liability for damages
incurred by the use of this material. It is the responsibility of the user to comply with all applicable laws and
Page 7 of 7
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 12.14.2014
Sodium Hydroxide,1.1N
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
regulations applicable to this material.
NFPA: 2-0-0
HMIS: 2-0-0
GHS Full Text Phrases:  None
Abbreviations and Acronyms: 
IMDG International Maritime Code for Dangerous Goods.
PNEC. Predicted No-Effect Concentration (REACH).
CFR Code of Federal Regulations (USA).
SARA Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act (USA).
RCRA. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (USA).
TSCA. Toxic Substances Control Act (USA).
NPRI National Pollutant Release Inventory (Canada).
DOT US Department of Transportation.
IATA International Air Transport Association.
GHS Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals.
ACGIH American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists.
CAS Chemical Abstracts Service (division of the American Chemical Society).
NFPA National Fire Protection Association (USA).
HMIS Hazardous Materials Identification System (USA).
WHMIS Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System (Canada).
DNEL Derived No-Effect Level (REACH).
