 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To Our Customers: 
 
The attached Safety Data Sheet (SDS) was prepared by the vendor of the product you purchased 
through one of our divisions. We used the manufacturer’s electronic document directly or 
scanned a paper copy and generated a file for our automated SDS delivery system. 
 
All statements, technical information, and recommendations contained therein are solely that of 
the manufacturer of the product. We at Zep Inc. did not verify the accuracy and completeness of 
the statements and do not warrantee or guarantee the information. We provide vendor SDSs in 
accordance with the requirements of the OSHA Hazard Communication Standard in order to 
assist our customers in their compliance efforts. We made every effort to deliver all of the 
information prepared by the manufacturer. We cannot anticipate all conditions under which this 
information will be used. If you have any questions about the statements on the SDS, please 
contact the company shown on the document. 
 
Zep Inc. assumes no liability or responsibility for loss or damage resulting from the improper use 
or handling of this product, from incompatible product combinations, or from the failure to 
follow instructions, warnings, and advisories in the manufacturer’s product label and Safety Data 
Sheet. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Compliance Services 
Zep Inc. 
Page 1 of 7
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 01.15.2015
Starch Indicator Solution, 1.0% w/v
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
SECTION 1: Identification of the substance/mixture and of the supplier
Product name:
Starch Indicator Solution, 1.0% w/v
Manufacturer/Supplier Trade name:
Manufacturer/Supplier Article number: ZPST5010-B
Recommended uses of the product and restrictions on use: Laboratory
Manufacturer Details:
AquaPhoenix Scientific
860 Gitts Run Road,
Hanover, PA 17331
(717) 632-1291
Supplier Details:
ZEP, INC.
1310 Seaboard Industrial Blvd., Atlanta, GA 30318
(877) 428-9937
Emergency telephone number:
Emergency Telephone No.: (800) 255-3924
SECTION 2: Hazards identification
Classification of the substance or mixture:
Corrosive
Serious eye damage, category 1
Irritant
Skin irritation, category 2
Eye Dam. 1.
Skin Corr 2.
Signal word: Danger
Hazard statements:
Causes serious eye damage.
Causes skin irritation.
Precautionary statements:
If medical advice is needed have product container or label at hand.
Keep out of reach of children.
Read label before use.
Wash thoroughly after handling.
Wear protective gloves/protective clothing/eye protection/face protection.
IF IN EYES: Rinse cautiously with water for several minutes. Remove contact lenses if present and easy to do.
Continue rinsing.
Rinse mouth.
Specific treatment (see supplemental first aid instructions on this label).
Immediately call a POISON CENTER or doctor/physician.
Take off contaminated clothing and wash before reuse.
Page 2 of 7
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 01.15.2015
Starch Indicator Solution, 1.0% w/v
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
IF ON SKIN: Wash with soap and water.
If skin irritation occurs: Get medical advice/attention.
Other Non-GHS Classification: None
SECTION 3: Composition/information on ingredients
Ingredients:
Ingredients:
CAS 69-72-7
Salicylic Acid
0.1 %
CAS 9005-84-9
Starch
1 %
CAS 7646-85-7
Zinc Chloride
0.4 %
CAS 64-19-7
Acetic Acid
0.36 %
Percentages are by weight
SECTION 4: First aid measures
Description of first aid measures
After inhalation:
Loosen clothing as necessary and position individual in a comfortable position. Give artificial respiration if
necessary. Move exposed individual to fresh air. Seek medical advice if discomfort or irritation persists.
After skin contact:
Seek medical advice if discomfort or irritation persists. Wash affected area with soap and water. Rinse/flush
exposed skin gently using water for 15-20 minutes. Seek immediate medical attention.
After eye contact:
Protect unexposed eye. Rinse or flush exposed eye gently using water for 15-20 minutes. Remove contact
lenses, if present and easy to do, and continue rinsing. Immediately get medical assistance.
After swallowing:
Rinse mouth thoroughly. Do not induce vomiting. Seek medical attention immediately. Have exposed individual
drink sips of water. Seek medical attention if irritation, discomfort or vomiting persists.
Most important symptoms and effects, both acute and delayed:
Irritation. Nausea. Headache. Shortness of breath.
Indication of any immediate medical attention and special treatment needed:
If seeking medical attention provide SDS document to physician. Physician should treat symptomatically. DO
NOT use mouth-to-mouth resuscitation without a barrier device to prevent responder from receiving burns.
Follow with gastric lavage with activated charcoal. If available, administer ferric hexacyanoferrate as a
gastrointestinal trapping agent. Persons with pre - existing skin diso rders, eye problems, or impaired kidney
function may be more susceptible to the effects of this substance.
SECTION 5: Firefighting measures
Extinguishing media
Suitable extinguishing agents:
Use water, dry chemical, chemical foam, carbon dioxide, or alcohol-resistant foam.
Unsuitable extinguishing agents:
Page 3 of 7
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 01.15.2015
Starch Indicator Solution, 1.0% w/v
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
Water or foam may cause frothing.
Special hazards arising from the substance or mixture:
Use water spray to cool unopened containers. Combustion products may include carbon oxides or other toxic
vapors.
Advice for firefighters:
Protective equipment:
Wear protective eyeware, gloves, and clothing. Wear special protective clothing and positive pressure self-
contained breathing apparatus. Wear protective eyewear, gloves, and clothing. Refer to Section 8.
Additional information (precautions):
Avoid inhaling gases, fumes, dust, mist, vapor, and aerosols. Avoid contact with skin, eyes, and clothing. Move
product containers away from fire or keep cool with water spray as a protective measure, where feasible.
SECTION 6: Accidental release measures
Personal precautions, protective equipment and emergency procedures:
Ensure adequate ventilation. Stop the spill, if possible. When necessary use NIOSH approved breathing
equipment. Transfer to a disposal or recovery container. Use respiratory protective device against the effects of
fumes/dust/aerosol.
Environmental precautions:
Should not be released into environment. Prevent from reaching drains, sewer, or waterway. Collect
contaminated soil for characterization per Section 13.
Methods and material for containment and cleaning up:
Follow good hygiene procedures when handling chemical materials. Refer to Section 8. Always obey local
regulations. Place into properly labeled containers for recovery or disposal. If necessary, use trained response
staff/contractor. Absorb with suitable absorbent material such as sand or earth and containerize for disposal.
Reference to other sections: None
SECTION 7: Handling and storage
Precautions for safe handling:
Avoid contact with skin, eyes, and clothing. Absorb spillage to prevent material damage. Follow good hygiene
procedures when handling chemical materials. Do not eat, drink, smoke, or use personal products when
handling chemical substances. Use only in well ventilated areas. Wash hands after handling.
Conditions for safe storage, including any incompatibilities:
Provide ventilation for containers. Store away from foodstuffs. Store in cool, dry conditions in well sealed
containers. Store with like hazards. Protect from freezing and physical damage. Provide ventilation for
containers. Keep away from food and beverages. Protect from freezing and physical damage. Store away from
incompatible materials.
SECTION 8: Exposure controls/personal protection
Control parameters:
7646-85-7, Zinc Chloride, ACGIH TLV TWA 1 mg/m3.
7646-85-7, Zinc Chloride, OSHA PEL TWA 1 mg/m3.
64-19-7, Acetic acid , ACGIH TLV: 25mg/m3.
64-19-7, Acetic acid , OSHA PEL: 25mg/m3.
Page 4 of 7
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 01.15.2015
Starch Indicator Solution, 1.0% w/v
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
Appropriate engineering controls:
Emergency eye wash fountains and safety showers should be available in
the immediate vicinity of use or handling. Normal ventilation is adequate.
Ensure eyewash and safety shower are available.
Respiratory protection:
Not required under normal conditions of use. Use suitable respiratory
protective device when high concentrations are present. Where risk
assessment shows air-purifying respirators are refer to Section 6.
Protection of skin:
Select glove material impermeable and resistant to the substance. Select
glove material based on rates of diffusion and degradation. Wear
protective clothing.
Eye protection:
Safety glasses or goggles are appropriate eye protection.
General hygienic measures:
Avoid contact with the eyes and skin. Wash hands and exposed skin with
soap and plenty of water. Before wearing again wash contaminated
clothing.
SECTION 9: Physical and chemical properties
Appearance (physical
state, color):
Translucent liquid
Explosion limit lower:
Explosion limit upper:
Not determined
Not determined
Odor:
Slight potato-like odor Vapor pressure at 20°C:
Not determined
Odor threshold:
Not determined
Vapor density:
Not determined
pH-value:
Not determined
Relative density:
Not determined
Melting/Freezing point:
Not determined
Solubilities:
Infinite solubility in water.
Boiling point/Boiling
range:
Not determined
Partition coefficient (n-
octanol/water):
Not determined
Flash point (closed cup): Not determined
Auto/Self-ignition
temperature:
Not determined
Evaporation rate:
Not determined
Decomposition
temperature:
Not determined
Flammability (solid,
gaseous):
Not determined
Viscosity:
a. Kinematic: Not determined
b. Dynamic: Not determined
Density at 20°C:
Not determined
Specific Gravity:
2.04
SECTION 10: Stability and reactivity
Reactivity:
Nonreactive under normal conditions.
Chemical stability:
No decomposition if used and stored according to specifications.
Possible hazardous reactions:
No information available.
Conditions to avoid:
Incompatible materials.
Incompatible materials:
Strong oxidizing agents.
Hazardous decomposition products:
Carbon oxides (CO, CO2).
Page 5 of 7
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 01.15.2015
Starch Indicator Solution, 1.0% w/v
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
SECTION 11: Toxicological information
Acute Toxicity: No additional information.
Chronic Toxicity: No additional information.
Skin corrosion/irritation: No additional information.
Serious eye damage/irritation: No additional information.
Respiratory or skin sensitization: No additional information.
Carcinogenicity:
Germ cell mutagenicity: No additional information.
Reproductive Toxicity: No additional information.
STOT-single and repeated exposure: No additional information.
Additional toxicological information:
No additional information.
SECTION 12: Ecological information
Ecotoxicity: No additional information.
Persistence and degradability:
Readily degradable in the environment.
Bioaccumulative potential: No additional information.
Mobility in soil: No additional information.
Other adverse effects: No additional information.
SECTION 13: Disposal considerations
Waste disposal recommendations:
Dilute with water and flush to sewer. Chemical waste generators must determine whether a discarded chemical
is classified as a hazardous waste. Chemical waste generators must also consult local, regional, and national
hazardous waste regulations. Ensure complete and accurate classification. It is the responsibility of the waste
generator to properly characterize all waste materials according to applicable regulatory entities (US
40CFR262.11). Dispose of empty containers as unused product.
SECTION 14: Transport information
US DOT
UN Number:
ADR, ADN, DOT, IMDG, IATA
Not Dangerous Goods
Limited Quantity Exception:
None
Bulk:
Non Bulk:
RQ (if applicable): None
RQ (if applicable): None
Proper shipping Name: Not Dangerous
Goods.
Proper shipping Name: Not Dangerous
Goods.
Hazard Class: None
Hazard Class: None
Packing Group: Not Dangerous Goods.
Packing Group: Not Dangerous Goods.
Marine Pollutant (if applicable): No
additional information.
Marine Pollutant (if applicable): No
additional information.
Page 6 of 7
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 01.15.2015
Starch Indicator Solution, 1.0% w/v
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
Comments: None
Comments: None
SECTION 15: Regulatory information
United States (USA)
SARA Section 311/312 (Specific toxic chemical listings):
Acute
SARA Section 313 (Specific toxic chemical listings):
7646-85-7 Zinc Chloride.
RCRA (hazardous waste code):
None of the ingredients are listed.
TSCA (Toxic Substances Control Act) :
All ingredients are listed.
CERCLA (Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act):
1310-58-3 Potassium hydroxide 1000 lbs.
7646-85-7 Zinc Chloride 1000 lb.
64-19-7 Acetic Acid 5000.
Proposition 65 (California):
Chemicals known to cause cancer:
None of the ingredients are listed.
Chemicals known to cause reproductive toxicity for females:
None of the ingredients are listed.
Chemicals known to cause reproductive toxicity for males:
None of the ingredients are listed.
Chemicals known to cause developmental toxicity:
None of the ingredients are listed.
Canada
Canadian Domestic Substances List (DSL) :
12125-02-9 Not Regulated.: not listed.
SECTION 16: Other information
This product has been classified in accordance with hazard criteria of the Controlled Products Regulations and
the SDS contains all the information required by the Controlled Products Regulations. The responsibility to
provide a safe workplace remains with the user. The user should consider the health hazards and safety
information contained herein as a guide and should take those precautions required in an individual operation
to instruct employees and develop work practice procedures for a safe work environment. The information
contained herein is, to the best of our knowledge and belief, accurate. However, since the conditions of
handling and use are beyond our control, we make no guarantee of results, and assume no liability for damages
incurred by the use of this material. It is the responsibility of the user to comply with all applicable laws and
regulations applicable to this material.
NFPA: 1-0-0
Page 7 of 7
Safety Data Sheet
according to 29CFR1910/1200 and GHS Rev. 3
Effective date : 01.15.2015
Starch Indicator Solution, 1.0% w/v
Generated by SDSPublisher (patent-pending) www.GSMSDS.com, 1-813-435-5161
HMIS: 1-0-0
GHS Full Text Phrases:  None
Abbreviations and Acronyms: 
IMDG International Maritime Code for Dangerous Goods.
PNEC. Predicted No-Effect Concentration (REACH).
CFR Code of Federal Regulations (USA).
SARA Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act (USA).
RCRA. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (USA).
TSCA. Toxic Substances Control Act (USA).
NPRI National Pollutant Release Inventory (Canada).
DOT US Department of Transportation.
IATA International Air Transport Association.
GHS Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals.
ACGIH American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists.
CAS Chemical Abstracts Service (division of the American Chemical Society).
HMIS Hazardous Materials Identification System (USA).
WHMIS Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System (Canada).
DNEL Derived No-Effect Level (REACH).
NFPA National Fire Protection Association (USA).
NPRI National Pollutant Release Inventory (Canada).
